# Lucky Donut Terminal App

GitHub repo: https://github.com/computerlegs/luckydonut  
Trello workspace: https://trello.com/b/fy38UFYE/lucky-donut-app  

## Identify any code style guide or styling conventions that the application will adhere to.

Lucky Donut app uses OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and follows the PEP8 style guide. PEP8 is considered best practice for creating Python code. It is a set of guidelines for formatting Python scripts. Lucky Donut app adheres to the following PEP8 guidelines:

-  Imports in alphabetical order
-  Blank line after imports
-  CamelCase for the donut class
-  Lowercase with underscores for methods in the class
-  Two blank lines before donut class and one line after
-  Within the class, there is one blank line between each method
-  Try except block is indented with four spaces
-  Method calls within the class are indented with four spaces
-  No lines of code over 79 characters
-  Space after # symbol in comments

The code was written with OOP paradigm principles. The donut class has several methods to be call on donut class instances. Code is organised into classes and objects, and behaviour of those objects is controlled by methods in the class. The Donut class represents a donut with specific characteristics (base, topping, extra) and actions (random donut, selecting donut options, writing/reading donut options from a file).

## Lucky Donut features

Lucky Donut is simple but feature rich. Here are six of it's features:

- Class definition. The first feature of this script is the definition of the "Donut" class. It represents a donut with specific characteristics (toppings, etc) and actions (randomising, etc).
- Random donut generation. The method "generate_random_donut" assigns random values to the base, topping and extra attributes of the Donut class, allowing users to randomise a donut.
- Chosen donut selections. The "choose_donut_options" method calls the "base_options", "topping_options" and "extra_options" methods in a sequence, allowing users to customise a donut.
- Donut file in/file out. The "write_donut" and "read_donut" methods allow the program to write the attributes of a Donut instance to a file, and to read the attributes of a Donut instance from a file, respectively. This allows the program to store and retrieve donut information between sessions.
- Error checking. Errors are handles in this script with the use of try-except blocks. These blocks allow the program to handle exceptions that may occur during execution. Control flow prevents a user from proceeding by entering an 0 (which is an invalid option) to ensure the program continues running, rather than crashing, in the event of an invalid selection.
- ASCII art generated by the "art" and "extra.donutart" modules. Not essential to the functioning of the program, but it adds an additional layer of enjoyment for the user.
- Unicorn donut easter egg. If a user selects double rainbow options, they get an ASCII unicorn with their donut.

These are the main features of Lucky Donut, but there are more. For example, the code enumerates list items and prints them using a loop, the file being written and read is truncated, and it has unittest testing of two features of the code with multiple test cases.

## How Lucky Donut makes use of fundamental Python language elements and concepts  

### Variables

Lucky Donut uses variables throughout. For example: Class attributes. The Donut class has three attributes: "base", "topping" and extra. They are used to control individual instances of Donut.
Loops such as the enumeration loop have nested variables, for example "base_options" contains the variables "i" and "base" in order to format the list and present it as numeric selections.
Variables are used for handling user input, such as the "choice" variable - which is part of the control flow code that ensures the program asks for input again in the event of an input being 0.
The variable "my_donut" serves as the individual Donut instance.

